Name:
Broccoli Curry
Categories:
Vegan, Vegetarian, Potato, Broccoli, Curry, Lunch, Dinner, Gluten free, Lactose free
Time:
40 min
Servings:
5
Ingredients:
3 potatoes
3 stalks broccoli
1 fresh ginger
1 clove garlic
450 grams diced tomatoes
3/4 cup roasted unsalted whole almonds (nut)
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 teaspoon coriander
1 teaspoon cumin
1/2 teaspoon red chili powder
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric
3 cups vegetable stock
1 stick cinnamon
2 tablespoons cilantro
3 cups rice
Phases:
1. Prepare the potatoes: Without peeling, cut the potatoes into 1/2-inch cubes. Steam the potatoes over boiling water in a vegetable steamer, tightly covered, for 10 minutes.
When done, the potatoes should be firm, but tender and easily pierced with a fork. Drain.
2. Prepare the broccoli: Cut the stems from the crown. Use a paring knife to peel the tough outer skin from the broccoli stems. Slice the stems into 1/4-inch pieces. Cut the crown into florets about 3-inches long.
3. Make the sauce: In a food processor or blender, combine the peeled and coarsely chopped ginger, chopped garlic, tomatoes, 1/2 cup of the almonds (set aside the remaining 1/4 cup for garnish), and salt. Pulse the mixture until it is smooth.
4. Cook the spices: In a Dutch oven or other large, heavy pot with a lid, heat the canola oil over medium heat. Add the chili powder, coriander, cumin, and turmeric. Cook, stirring, for 1 minute until the spices are fragrant.
5. Simmer the sauce: Add the pureed tomato mixture to the pot with the spices – stand back as it may splutter as you add it to the pan. Cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. Add the stock and cinnamon stick. Bring to a boil. Simmer uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes.
6. Cook the vegetables: Add the potatoes and broccoli to the sauce and bring to a boil. Cover the pot and simmer for 8 minutes, or until all the vegetables are tender when pierced with a skewer.
7. Serve the curry: Remove the cinnamon stick. Coarsely chop the remaining 1/4 cup almonds. Ladle the curry into bowls with cooked rice and garnish with almonds and chopped cilantro.