Name:
Mushroom Soup
Categories:
Vegan, Vegetarian, Soup, Mushroom, Lunch, Dinner, Lactose free
Time:
105 min
Servings:
7
Ingredients:
1 ounce dried mushrooms
1 1/2 pounds fresh mushrooms
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 clove garlic
1 large onion
2 stalks celery
2 carrots
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
3/4 cup pearl barley
1 potato
10 cups water
2 tablespoons soy sauce (soy)
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1 bay leaf
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
1/4 cup chopped fresh dill
3 ounces baby spinach
Phases:
1. Soak the dried mushrooms: In a bowl, combine the dried mushrooms and the 2 cups hot water. Set aside for 30 minutes to soak.
With a slotted spoon, lift the mushrooms out of the bowl and transfer to a cutting board. Coarsely chop them. Strain the soaking liquid through a sieve lined with a paper towel to catch any grit and reserve.
2. Prep the fresh mushrooms: Whip any dirt from the mushrooms with a damp paper towel. Remove the stems from all except the button mushrooms. Coarsely chop the large mushrooms and thinly slice the small mushrooms. Set aside.
3. Cook the vegetables: In a large stock pot over medium heat, heat the oil. Add the garlic, onion, celery, carrots, salt, and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes until the vegetables have softened.
Add the mushrooms, stir well, and continue cooking, stirring occasionally, for another 10 minutes. Add the potato (cut into 1/2-inch chunks) and barley and cook, stirring, for 1 minute more.
4. Add the liquids: Stir in the reserved mushroom soaking liquid, water, soy sauce, vinegar, bay leaf, half the parsley, and half the dill.
Bring to a boil, then lower the heat. Partially cover and simmer for 45 to 50 minutes, or until the barley and potatoes are both tender. If the mixture seems too thick at any point, add more water, 1/2 cup at a time.
5. Finish the soup: Add the spinach and stir well. Cover the pot and let the spinach wilt for 2 minutes. Stir the soup and taste for seasoning. Add more salt, soy sauce, or balsamic vinegar, if you like. Sprinkle with the remaining parsley and dill. Ladle into bowls.
Leftovers will keep refrigerated for up to a week, or frozen for up to 3 months.